dan maintainer lead update + stepdown post (#1361)
carpentries/carpentries.org: _posts/2022/03/2022-03-28-commnity_maintainer_update.md

---
layout: page
authors: ["Daniel Chen"]
teaser: "Some of the projects Dan has been working on along with what's next for the maintainer community"
title: "Community Maintainer Lead: Recap, Update, and What's Next"

> date: 2022-03-02

Reviewer: @kmomar please update date

> date: 2022-03-02

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2022-05-17
```

["Requests for Comments" (RFCs)](https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/).
The main problem I worked on last year was tryining to figure out the "active" matinainers for each lesson.
This probelm stemmed from a lot of internal feedback about new maintainers not knowing how to resolve issues because
none of the listed co-maintainers were reachable.
While the
[Lesson Maintance Handbook](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/maintainers/index.html)
tried to help with getting started,
one of the fundamental problems we discovered was maintainers would no longer have time to maintain their lessons and have no formal way to notify and step down as a maintainer.
This led to a lot of lesson matiners who were listed but inactive,
and made it difficult to know which lessons needed more help.

### Counting the number of maintainers

[RFC#11](https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/11) did a count of the maintainers as listed by
the lesson listings for teach of the organizations.
At the time, there were 161 listed maintainers across 54 official lessons.

### Maintaining Active Maintainers

[RFC#15](https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/15)

> contained a lot of ideas for how to get more maintainers enguaged,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
contained a lot of ideas for how to get more Maintainers engaged,
```

and combined the ideas of
[RFC#11](https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/11),
[RFC#12](https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/12),
[RFC#13](https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/13), and
[RFC#14](https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/14).

> We ended up settling on implementing a maintiner yearly check-in so

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We ended up settling on implementing a Maintainer yearly check-in so
```

> the maintainers have a means to step down, know who their other co-maintainers are,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the Maintainers have a means to step down, know who their other co-Maintainers are,
```

and provides a more accurate list for The Carpentries to know which lessons need

> more maintainers to recruit for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
more Maintainers to recruit for.
```

Having a more accurate list for recruitment also allows us to be more explicit

> in listing which exact lesson repositories are looking for maintainers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in listing which exact lesson repositories are looking for Maintainers.
```

> In the past, a more general call for lesson maintainers would be made

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the past, a more general call for lesson Maintainers would be made
```

and then people were assigned based which lessons seemed they needed help or were inactive.
The yearly check-ins are described in 
[RFC#19](https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/19).

> Moving forward, some kind of mechanism of retaining credit for maintainers will be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moving forward, some kind of mechanism of retaining credit for Maintainers will be
```

done using a badging system (Alumni and Active maintainers) as described in
[RFC#20](https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/20).

### Maintainer Onboarding

Erin Becker and I (mostly Erin), also worked on revamping the
[Maintainer Onboarding](https://carpentries.github.io/maintainer-onboarding/)
process and documentation.

> We used this set of materials to onboard a wave of new maintainers across 3 sessions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We used this set of materials to onboard a wave of new Maintainers across 3 sessions
```

> in 2021 and plan on using this set of materials to onbaord 2 more waves in 2022.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in 2021. Erin will be leading another round of Maintainer Onboarding starting in June 2022 - check out [her recent blog post](https://carpentries.org/blog/2022/05/maintainer-application/) for more details and how to apply.
```

> The maintianer yearly check-in process that just happened will greatly help

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Maintainer yearly check-in process that just happened will greatly help
```

> with finding and assigning the next wave of lesson maintainers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with finding and assigning the next wave of lesson Maintainers.
```

### Other Ideas

> In order to help keep the maintainer community enguaged,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to help keep the Maintainer community engaged,
```

a few other ideas were described in
[RFC#21](https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/21).

> Here, we tried to provide a time for maintianers to ask general questions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, we tried to provide a time for Maintainers to ask general questions
```

> outside of the maintainer meetings, and also spotlight specific lessons

Reviewer: ```suggestion
outside of the Maintainer meetings, and also spotlight specific lessons
```

> to help enguage mantainers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to help engage Maintainers.
```

This idea hasn't been formalized yet, and could be a system to explore in the future on how to implement.

## What's next

> The Communit Maintainer Lead is a new an changeing role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Community Maintainer Lead is a new and changing role.
```

If there's any feedback on what worked, what didn't work, and what the position should be doing
I've opened
[RFC#22](https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/22)
for people to let us know what kind of support you would like to see.

### Stepping Down

More recetly, I've defended my dissertation and I've taken on 2 educational jobs.
Since so much is in flux at the moment,

> I won't have the capacity to continue with planning out the next broad steps for the maintainer community and will have to start the process of stepping down as the community maintainer lead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I won't have the capacity to continue with planning out the next broad steps for the Maintainer community and have started the process of stepping down as the Community Maintainer Lead.
```

> We'll be in the process of looking for my replacement and I'll help onboard them as I slowly transition out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll be announcing my replacement soon, and I'll help onboard them as I slowly transition out.
```

I won't completely disappear from The Carpentries, and hope to see folks in community discussions and meetings.

> I hope I left the maintainer community in a better place,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I hope I left the Maintainer community in a better place,
```
